README.md, before:

flyingblocksapi
===============

> API for developers to create flying and moving blocks in [Minecraft](http://minecraft.net) using [Bukkit](http://bukkit.org).

### Some Impressions

<img alt="Huh, a nice-looking image shoud be here :(" title="A waving flag" src="http://i.imgur.com/skxCTsf.gif" width=140 height=94>

### Used in...

... no plugin yet :( You can write me a PM on [Bukkit](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/), on [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/user/ase34/), send me an [email](asehrm34@gmail.com), or make a pull request if you want your plugin to appear here.

Overview
--------

* [Commands & Permissions](#commands--permissions)
* [Building](#building)
* [Underlying Technique](#underlying-technique)
* [API Usage](#ap-usage)
* [Credits & Special Thanks](#credits--special-thanks)
* [License](#license)
* [Language Disclaimer](#language-disclaimer)

Commands & Permissions
----------------------

* */flyingblocks-removeall* - Removes all flying blocks from the worlds. Good for debugging.
  `flyingblocks.removeall` (OP by default)
* */flyingblocks-examples* - Lists all commands of the examples, check them out! :P
  `flyingblocks.examples` (OP by default)

Building
--------

This plugin uses [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/) as build tool. Just [download](https://github.com/ase34/flyingblocksapi/archive/master.zip) this repositotry's zipfile or clone it via Git using `git clone http://github.com/ase34/flyingblocksapi.git`, then invoke `mvn clean package` to build a new JAR file.

Underlying Technique
--------------------

This technique is heavily inspired by [The Holographic Displays](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q1B19JvX5TE) of [Asdjke](http://www.youtube.com/user/AsdjkeAndBro). Without his ideas and research, this plugin would likely never been made. Thanks. This should give you an abstract explanation how this plugin achieves its behavoiur:

* First, a *Wither Skull* will be spawned about 100 blocks above the block's desired spawnpoint.
  That skull is not affected by gravity at the client, so there is *no* constant downfall-cancellation (for example, using packets) needed.
* Then, a *Horse* is attached to the skull with an age of -4057200. The extemly low age causes the client to render the horse as invisible, but also setting the position of their passengers aroun 100 block below the horse.
* Finally, a *Falling Sand Block* with a different block id is attached to the horse. Because of the age of the horse and the height of the skull, the block appears a the exact spawn position. The falling block is not affected by gravity on the client because it is an (indirect) passenger of the skull.

API Usage
---------

### Adding to build path

In order to use the API, you need to add *flyingblocksapi* to your plugin's build path. If you are not using Maven or comparable, you actually do the same thing like with your `craftbukkit.jar` or `bukkit.jar`. For Maven users, I provide a public repository on this GitHub project page. Just add these bits of markup in your pom.xml:

```
...
<repositories>
  <!-- Bukkit repo -->
  ...
  <repository>
    <id>ase34-repo</id>
    <url>http://ase34.github.io/maven-repo</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
...
<dependencies>
  <!-- more depenencies -->
  ...
  <dependency>
      <groupId>de.ase34</groupId>
      <artifactId>flyingblocksapi</artifactId>
      <version>0.1</version>
      <scope>provided</scope>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
...
```

### Implement own movement logic

Using the API as a developer is quite easy, he/she just has to extend the class [de.ase34.flyingblocksapi.FlyingBlock]() and override the [onTick()]() method by his own movement logic. In the method body, some special rules need to be follown:

* Due to a misimplementation/bug/whatever **`getBukkitEntity().teleport(Location)` does fail for entities** with a passenger attached. *flyingblocksapi* provides an **alternative by invoking [`setLocation(Location)`]()** .
* In order to **set the velocity/direction/movement of the skull** using the Bukkit API, please **use `setVelocity(Vector)` and *not* `setDirection(Vector)`**.
* Please keep in mind that you **are modifying the skull entity, not the falling block**. The skull is normally located 100 blocks higher than the appearance of the block. (See [`getHeightOffset()`]())
* The offset is calibrated so that the y-coordinate of the skull minus the default height offset ([`getHeightOffset()`]()) is equal to the y-coordinate of the **downside of the block** and *not* the center of the block. In order to change this behaviour so that the y-coordinate of the skull minus the height offset [`getHeightOffset()`]() equals the y-coordinate of the block's center, **use [another constructor]()** with `FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5` as the offet parameter and `FlyingBlock.AGE` as the age parameter.  

To spawn the prepared flying block, just call [`spawn()`](), and you're done! Then the [onTick()]() gets then called once every tick. For more information about the methods, please go to the [Javadoc]() page.

### Examples

Sample code for a rising block with a constant velocity using an anonymous class (taken from [`src/main/java/de/ase34/commands/examples/RisingBlockCommandExecutor.java`](blob/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples/RisingBlockCommandExecutor.java)):

```java
public class RisingBlockCommandExecutor implements CommandExecutor {

    @Override
    public boolean onCommand(CommandSender sender, Command command, String label, String[] args) {
        // player check
        if (!(sender instanceof Player)) {
            sender.sendMessage("Only available as player!");
            return true;
        }

        // variables
        final double velocity = args.length > 0 ? Double.parseDouble(args[0]) : 0.05;

        // constants
        final Vector velocityVector = new Vector(0, velocity, 0);
        int trackerUpdateInterval = 4;
        // we can use a high update interval (0.5 seconds) because the velocity mainly handles the movement

        // anonymous class
        FlyingBlock block = new FlyingBlock(Material.STONE, (byte) 0, trackerUpdateInterval) {
            @Override
            public void onTick() {
                // set velocity
                if (!this.getBukkitEntity().getVelocity().equals(velocityVector)) {
                    // huh, wrong velocity, override...
                    this.getBukkitEntity().setVelocity(velocityVector);
                }
            }
        };
        // spawn block
        block.spawn(((Player) sender).getLocation());

        sender.sendMessage(ChatColor.GRAY + "Sucessfully spawned a rising block!");
        return true;
    }

}
```

Complex example code for a flying block moving up and down in a sine-wave-style (taken from [`src/main/java/de/ase34/commands/examples/SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor.java`](blob/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples/SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor.java)): 

```java
public class SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor implements CommandExecutor {

    @Override
    public boolean onCommand(CommandSender sender, Command command, String label, String[] args) {
        // player instance check
        if (!(sender instanceof Player)) {
            sender.sendMessage("Only available as player!");
            return true;
        }

        Player player = (Player) sender;
        final Location playerLocation = player.getLocation().clone().add(new Vector(0, 0.5, 0));
        // we add 0.5 to the y-coordinate so that the center is not at the player's feet (take a look at the FlyingBlocks constructor)
        final long startTime = player.getWorld().getFullTime();
        // we save the creation time so that the sine wave starts at its origin (x=0; y=sin(x)=0) 

        // variables
        final double periodSeconds = args.length > 0 ? Double.parseDouble(args[0]) : 3;
        int trackerUpdateInterval = args.length > 1 ? Integer.parseInt(args[1]) : 4;

        // anonymous class
        FlyingBlock block = new FlyingBlock(Material.STONE, (byte) 0, trackerUpdateInterval,
                FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5, FlyingBlock.AGE) {
            // we used FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5 so that the computed locations represent the center of the block, not the downfacing side
            @Override
            public void onTick() {
                // constants
                double amplitude = 3.0; // peak amplitude of 3 (-3 to 3)
                double period = (2 * Math.PI) / (periodSeconds * 20); // period of `periodSeconds` seconds

                // variables
                double time = getBukkitEntity().getWorld().getFullTime();

                // math
                double y = Math.sin((time - startTime) * period) * amplitude;
                double nexty = Math.sin((time + 1 - startTime) * period) * amplitude;
                // we calculate the next y value so we can compute the current velocity

                setLocation(playerLocation.clone().add(0, y + getHeightOffset(), 0));
                // we add the height offset because we are modifying the coordinates of the skull, not the block
                setVelocity(new Vector(0, nexty - y, 0));
                // velocity until the next tick
            }
        };
        // spawn block
        block.spawn(playerLocation);

        sender.sendMessage(ChatColor.GRAY + "Sucessfully spawned a block moving in a sine wave!");
        return true;
    }

}
```

Many other examples can be found in the [`de.ase34.flyingblocksapi.commands.examples` package](tree/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples). To see these examples in-game, use the `/flyingblocks-examples` command.

### Other notes for the developer

The developer has to take certain precautions when using this plugin:

* All flying blocks get removed during disablings of *flyingblocksapi* (reloads/stops of the server) as well as during [WorldUnloadEvents](http://jd.bukkit.org/dev/apidocs/org/bukkit/event/world/WorldUnloadEvent.html). To make them persistent, the developer needs to save the blocks (in a file for example) and to respawn them (preferably in the `onEnable()` method or listen to the [WorldLoadEvents](http://jd.bukkit.org/dev/apidocs/org/bukkit/event/world/WorldLoadEvent.html)).

Credits & Special Thanks
--------------------------

* [Asdjke](http://www.youtube.com/user/AsdjkeAndBro) - Underlying technique (<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q1B19JvX5TE>) Thanks!
* [Jogy34](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/jogy34.90565555/) - code to spawn custom entites (<https://forums.bukkit.org/threads/tutorial-1-7-creating-a-custom-entity.212849/>) Thanks!
* [ase34](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/) - Plugin design and core development

License
-------

The code is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License Version 3. See [LICENSE.txt]() for full license text.

> Copyright (C) 2014 ase34
> 
> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
> 
> This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
> 
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Language Disclaimer
-------------------

As I'm not a native english speaker, I appreciate every suggestion concerning the written words of this paper (spelling, grammar, phrasing, language style, ...). You can write me a PM on [Bukkit](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/), on [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/user/ase34/), send me an [email](asehrm34@gmail.com), or make a pull request. Thanks for your tolerance.

Commit message:

Added links section in README

README.md, after:

flyingblocksapi
===============

> API for developers to create flying and moving blocks in [Minecraft](http://minecraft.net) using [Bukkit](http://bukkit.org).

### Some Impressions

<img alt="Huh, a nice-looking image shoud be here :(" title="A waving flag" src="http://i.imgur.com/skxCTsf.gif" width=140 height=94>

### Used in...

... no plugin yet :( You can write me a PM on [Bukkit](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/), on [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/user/ase34/), send me an [email](asehrm34@gmail.com), or make a pull request if you want your plugin to appear here.

### Important Links

* BukkitDev Project Page - http://dev.bukkit.org/bukkit-plugins/flyingblocksapi/
* Javadocs - http://ase34.github.io/flyingblocksapi/javadocs

Overview
--------

* [Commands & Permissions](#commands--permissions)
* [Building](#building)
* [Underlying Technique](#underlying-technique)
* [API Usage](#ap-usage)
* [Credits & Special Thanks](#credits--special-thanks)
* [License](#license)
* [Language Disclaimer](#language-disclaimer)

Commands & Permissions
----------------------

* */flyingblocks-removeall* - Removes all flying blocks from the worlds. Good for debugging.
  `flyingblocks.removeall` (OP by default)
* */flyingblocks-examples* - Lists all commands of the examples, check them out! :P
  `flyingblocks.examples` (OP by default)

Building
--------

This plugin uses [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/) as build tool. Just [download](https://github.com/ase34/flyingblocksapi/archive/master.zip) this repositotry's zipfile or clone it via Git using `git clone http://github.com/ase34/flyingblocksapi.git`, then invoke `mvn clean package` to build a new JAR file.

Underlying Technique
--------------------

This technique is heavily inspired by [The Holographic Displays](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q1B19JvX5TE) of [Asdjke](http://www.youtube.com/user/AsdjkeAndBro). Without his ideas and research, this plugin would likely never been made. Thanks. This should give you an abstract explanation how this plugin achieves its behavoiur:

* First, a *Wither Skull* will be spawned about 100 blocks above the block's desired spawnpoint.
  That skull is not affected by gravity at the client, so there is *no* constant downfall-cancellation (for example, using packets) needed.
* Then, a *Horse* is attached to the skull with an age of -4057200. The extemly low age causes the client to render the horse as invisible, but also setting the position of their passengers aroun 100 block below the horse.
* Finally, a *Falling Sand Block* with a different block id is attached to the horse. Because of the age of the horse and the height of the skull, the block appears a the exact spawn position. The falling block is not affected by gravity on the client because it is an (indirect) passenger of the skull.

API Usage
---------

### Adding to build path

In order to use the API, you need to add *flyingblocksapi* to your plugin's build path. If you are not using Maven or comparable, you actually do the same thing like with your `craftbukkit.jar` or `bukkit.jar`. For Maven users, I provide a public repository on this GitHub project page. Just add these bits of markup in your pom.xml:

```
...
<repositories>
  <!-- Bukkit repo -->
  ...
  <repository>
    <id>ase34-repo</id>
    <url>http://ase34.github.io/maven-repo</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
...
<dependencies>
  <!-- more depenencies -->
  ...
  <dependency>
      <groupId>de.ase34</groupId>
      <artifactId>flyingblocksapi</artifactId>
      <version>0.1</version>
      <scope>provided</scope>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
...
```

### Implement own movement logic

Using the API as a developer is quite easy, he/she just has to extend the class [de.ase34.flyingblocksapi.FlyingBlock]() and override the [onTick()]() method by his own movement logic. In the method body, some special rules need to be follown:

* Due to a misimplementation/bug/whatever **`getBukkitEntity().teleport(Location)` does fail for entities** with a passenger attached. *flyingblocksapi* provides an **alternative by invoking [`setLocation(Location)`]()** .
* In order to **set the velocity/direction/movement of the skull** using the Bukkit API, please **use `setVelocity(Vector)` and *not* `setDirection(Vector)`**.
* Please keep in mind that you **are modifying the skull entity, not the falling block**. The skull is normally located 100 blocks higher than the appearance of the block. (See [`getHeightOffset()`]())
* The offset is calibrated so that the y-coordinate of the skull minus the default height offset ([`getHeightOffset()`]()) is equal to the y-coordinate of the **downside of the block** and *not* the center of the block. In order to change this behaviour so that the y-coordinate of the skull minus the height offset [`getHeightOffset()`]() equals the y-coordinate of the block's center, **use [another constructor]()** with `FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5` as the offet parameter and `FlyingBlock.AGE` as the age parameter.  

To spawn the prepared flying block, just call [`spawn()`](), and you're done! Then the [onTick()]() gets then called once every tick. For more information about the methods, please go to the [Javadoc]() page.

### Examples

Sample code for a rising block with a constant velocity using an anonymous class (taken from [`src/main/java/de/ase34/commands/examples/RisingBlockCommandExecutor.java`](blob/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples/RisingBlockCommandExecutor.java)):

```java
public class RisingBlockCommandExecutor implements CommandExecutor {

    @Override
    public boolean onCommand(CommandSender sender, Command command, String label, String[] args) {
        // player check
        if (!(sender instanceof Player)) {
            sender.sendMessage("Only available as player!");
            return true;
        }

        // variables
        final double velocity = args.length > 0 ? Double.parseDouble(args[0]) : 0.05;

        // constants
        final Vector velocityVector = new Vector(0, velocity, 0);
        int trackerUpdateInterval = 4;
        // we can use a high update interval (0.5 seconds) because the velocity mainly handles the movement

        // anonymous class
        FlyingBlock block = new FlyingBlock(Material.STONE, (byte) 0, trackerUpdateInterval) {
            @Override
            public void onTick() {
                // set velocity
                if (!this.getBukkitEntity().getVelocity().equals(velocityVector)) {
                    // huh, wrong velocity, override...
                    this.getBukkitEntity().setVelocity(velocityVector);
                }
            }
        };
        // spawn block
        block.spawn(((Player) sender).getLocation());

        sender.sendMessage(ChatColor.GRAY + "Sucessfully spawned a rising block!");
        return true;
    }

}
```

Complex example code for a flying block moving up and down in a sine-wave-style (taken from [`src/main/java/de/ase34/commands/examples/SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor.java`](blob/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples/SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor.java)): 

```java
public class SineWaveBlockCommandExecutor implements CommandExecutor {

    @Override
    public boolean onCommand(CommandSender sender, Command command, String label, String[] args) {
        // player instance check
        if (!(sender instanceof Player)) {
            sender.sendMessage("Only available as player!");
            return true;
        }

        Player player = (Player) sender;
        final Location playerLocation = player.getLocation().clone().add(new Vector(0, 0.5, 0));
        // we add 0.5 to the y-coordinate so that the center is not at the player's feet (take a look at the FlyingBlocks constructor)
        final long startTime = player.getWorld().getFullTime();
        // we save the creation time so that the sine wave starts at its origin (x=0; y=sin(x)=0) 

        // variables
        final double periodSeconds = args.length > 0 ? Double.parseDouble(args[0]) : 3;
        int trackerUpdateInterval = args.length > 1 ? Integer.parseInt(args[1]) : 4;

        // anonymous class
        FlyingBlock block = new FlyingBlock(Material.STONE, (byte) 0, trackerUpdateInterval,
                FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5, FlyingBlock.AGE) {
            // we used FlyingBlock.OFFSET - 0.5 so that the computed locations represent the center of the block, not the downfacing side
            @Override
            public void onTick() {
                // constants
                double amplitude = 3.0; // peak amplitude of 3 (-3 to 3)
                double period = (2 * Math.PI) / (periodSeconds * 20); // period of `periodSeconds` seconds

                // variables
                double time = getBukkitEntity().getWorld().getFullTime();

                // math
                double y = Math.sin((time - startTime) * period) * amplitude;
                double nexty = Math.sin((time + 1 - startTime) * period) * amplitude;
                // we calculate the next y value so we can compute the current velocity

                setLocation(playerLocation.clone().add(0, y + getHeightOffset(), 0));
                // we add the height offset because we are modifying the coordinates of the skull, not the block
                setVelocity(new Vector(0, nexty - y, 0));
                // velocity until the next tick
            }
        };
        // spawn block
        block.spawn(playerLocation);

        sender.sendMessage(ChatColor.GRAY + "Sucessfully spawned a block moving in a sine wave!");
        return true;
    }

}
```

Many other examples can be found in the [`de.ase34.flyingblocksapi.commands.examples` package](tree/master/src/main/java/de/ase34/flyingblocksapi/commands/examples). To see these examples in-game, use the `/flyingblocks-examples` command.

### Other notes for the developer

The developer has to take certain precautions when using this plugin:

* All flying blocks get removed during disablings of *flyingblocksapi* (reloads/stops of the server) as well as during [WorldUnloadEvents](http://jd.bukkit.org/dev/apidocs/org/bukkit/event/world/WorldUnloadEvent.html). To make them persistent, the developer needs to save the blocks (in a file for example) and to respawn them (preferably in the `onEnable()` method or listen to the [WorldLoadEvents](http://jd.bukkit.org/dev/apidocs/org/bukkit/event/world/WorldLoadEvent.html)).

Credits & Special Thanks
--------------------------

* [Asdjke](http://www.youtube.com/user/AsdjkeAndBro) - Underlying technique (<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q1B19JvX5TE>) Thanks!
* [Jogy34](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/jogy34.90565555/) - code to spawn custom entites (<https://forums.bukkit.org/threads/tutorial-1-7-creating-a-custom-entity.212849/>) Thanks!
* [ase34](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/) - Plugin design and core development

License
-------

The code is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License Version 3. See [LICENSE.txt]() for full license text.

> Copyright (C) 2014 ase34
> 
> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
> 
> This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
> 
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Language Disclaimer
-------------------

As I'm not a native english speaker, I appreciate every suggestion concerning the written words of this paper, of the comments in the code, or of the javadoc (spelling, grammar, phrasing, language style, ...). You can write me a PM on [Bukkit](https://forums.bukkit.org/members/ase34.90684193/), on [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/user/ase34/), send me an [email](asehrm34@gmail.com), or make a pull request. Thanks for your tolerance.
